---
title: "Works"
permalink: /works/
---

##Term Papers and Working Papers

A Rousseauian Look at History & Aesthetics
====

In this essay, I explore the philosophical perspectives of Jean-Jacques Rousseau and Adam Smith in relation to history and aesthetics. Rousseau argues that social inequality is not a result of innate differences but rather a consequence of societal development, calling for a return to a more egalitarian and communal way of life. In contrast, Smith's stadial theory suggests a uni-directional progression of society towards modern economic growth and prosperity. Rousseau criticizes modernity, which Smith's theory strives for, emphasizing the negative impact of market society on social equity. I use the role of aesthetics, particularly in terms of conspicuous consumption, to make a connection to Rousseau's ideas on the demonstration of wealth and capital accumulation. To bring in some modern relevance to the discussion, I look at the contemporary movement of Effective Altruism, which uses science and wealth to acheive the goal of reducing economic and social inequality, to make a point on how propserity aesthetics has evolved while retaining its inherent inequity - a facade Sam Bankman-Fried (a key figure in the EA movement) and his now-defunct companies, FTX and Alameda Research, employed. In the same vein, the EA movement faces criticisms for not addressing systemic injustices. The essay concludes by highlighting the influence of Rousseauian aesthetics in certain spheres, such as startup culture, where individuals may adopt a rejection of modernity mindset while still being subject to criticism and potential downfall in capitalist systems.

Philosophical Insights of Antiquity on Ignorance and Governance
====

This essay explores the philosophical insights of antiquity on ignorance and governance, focusing on the ideas of John Stuart Mill and Thomas Hobbes. I highlight the role of agnotology, the study of socially constructed ignorance, in perpetuating political ignorance.
By discussing the sources of ignorance in the realm of politics, including limited access to education, deliberate manipulation of information, cognitive biases, and political apathy, the essay attempts to shape an epistemic issue in democracy. The democratization of information through technology and social media has both benefits and challenges. It can spread misinformation, create echo chambers, and empower populist movements. Technocracy, which relies on experts for decision-making, can exacerbate political ignorance and agnotology, leading to exclusion and diminished democratic values. Autocratic governments control information flow through education and state-controlled media to shape narratives and suppress dissent. The essay concludes by emphasizing the importance of addressing political ignorance and agnotology through various approaches, including civic education, media literacy programs, transparency, and accountability measures.

The Art of Revenge, Discourse, and Secrecy: Russian Revanchism & Irredentism
====

This essay discusses the concept of Russian revanchism and irredentism in the post-Soviet era. I explore how Russia, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, has sought to reclaim lost territory and influence through a combination of secretive tactics, interference in Western affairs, and a focus on its "near abroad" - the post-Soviet states that Russia hopes to keep within its sphere of influence. The essay argues that Russia's revanchist strategy involves a mix of soft power and hard power approaches, including covert operations, such as election meddling and cyber warfare, disinformation campaigns, and economic strategy. I examine Russia's adoption of a right-wing authoritarian ideology and alignment with like-minded authoritarian regimes as a means to challenge Western liberal norms and establish itself as a geopolitical power in opposition to NATO. The essay also raises questions about the ethics of Russia's strategies and whether its secrecy and covert meddling mislead the West regarding the severity of the Russian threat. 

Waxing Order or Waning Hegemon: Arguments on an Enduring Pax Americana Hegemony
====

The belief that the United States' hegemonic power is in decline has been supported by scholars as of late who point to external and internal threats challenging its military, economic, and political dominance. These challenges include rising powers like China and Russia, erosion of democracy, political polarization, economic inequality, and social unrest within the US. However, proponents of the enduring Pax Americana argue that the US has successfully maintained its hegemony through a combination of realist containment and liberal internationalism, creating a democratic club of allies. The US has used its hegemony to disperse power, establish liberal institutions, and promote collective security. It has exercised strategic restraint, engaged in off-shore balancing, and adopted a benevolent hegemon role. While the rise of authoritarian regimes and security competition pose risks, the US has shown resilience and adaptability in the face of changing global dynamics. By upholding democratic values, employing multilateralism, and balancing power, the US can mitigate threats and uphold the liberal world order it helped shape.

The Actor and the Audience: The Consummation of Political Freedom
====

In this essay, I explore different perspectives on freedom, focusing on the works of Hannah Arendt, Franz Neumann, and Thorstein Veblen. Arendt argues that true freedom resides in the political realm, where it is enacted through public action and engagement. She rejects the notion of innate or God-given freedom, emphasizing the need for social context and political participation. Neumann complements this view by highlighting the significance of individual autonomy and self-empowerment in achieving political freedom, suggesting that government restrictions can be overcome through individual agency. Veblen's theory of conspicuous consumption adds another dimension to the discussion, examining how freedom is expressed through displays of social status. However, excessive political action can lead to alienation and the erosion of political will. I also employ the Athenian practice of ostracism to illustrate the fluid nature of freedom based on the collective will of the people. Overall, the essay explores the socially constructed nature of freedom, underscoring the importance of political engagement, social recognition, and the delicate balance between individual agency and collective participation.

Judicial Restraint: Consequential Applications of Self-limitation in the Supreme Court
====

Judicial restraint is a mechanism used by the Supreme Court to limit its own power and avoid interfering with the decisions of other branches of government unless they are unconstitutional. It can be implemented through policy restraint, which involves deferring to the policy decisions made by other institutions, and institutional restraint, which aims to protect the Court's legitimacy and impartiality. By practicing restraint, the Court can preserve its influence, maintain public perception, and avoid being perceived as politically biased. Strategic application of restraint can also prevent the Court from getting involved in contentious political battles and allows it to address emerging issues in a controlled manner, ensuring the stability of the judicial system. This work is a start point for examining Legal and Judicial Agnotology - purposful ignorance in judicial contexts.

The Political Influences on the Implementation of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act
====

The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) was a major fiscal stimulus legislation implemented in response to the 2008 financial crisis. It aimed to stabilize the economy and provide direct relief to American families. The bill faced political challenges, with opposition from Congressional Republicans and conservative governors. While the ARRA achieved some policy goals, its implementation was hindered by partisan biases and varying administrative capacities at the state level. The ARRA introduced transparency measures and accountability requirements, but the reporting process was complex and often compromised the data used to assess the policy's effectiveness. Despite efforts to promote equity, systemic issues and limited funding hindered the equal distribution of benefits. The ARRA's impact on the 2010 midterm elections was mixed, and its success and failures shaped subsequent policy debates and the perception of government intervention in the economy.

